---
layout: post
title: "The Mom Test"
date: 2020-05-08
---

Talking to and understanding customers is perhaps an underrated skill in Product Management. 

Customers are often the source of requirements for a product. Most Product Managers understand that talking to customers is essential.

Here's the stick. **Talking to customers is hard**.

Bad conversations can result in false positives which can ultimately lead to incorrect product decisions. 

Now there are other ways to view this process. For example, you could build an initial product (some call this the MVP - Minimum Viable Product) and then iterate over it a few times before it turns out right. But this assumes the right MVP to begin with. 

Engineering a product (or even a feature) is non-trivial - taking time, effort and resources. Sometimes it could get to where the ship is too late to turn around.

## The Mom Test

Rob Fitzpatrick addresses exactly these user conversations in his book, [The Mom Test](http://momtestbook.com/). It is ~130 page handbook of good story telling and practical insight. 

The book 'games' conversations with customers and points out where they usually go wrong.

### Useful conversation roadmap

- Asking good questions (don't ask 'is this a good idea?')
- Avoiding bad data ('I would definitely buy that!' without commitment)
- Keeping it casual (allow customer honesty to shine)
- Pushing for commitment & advancement ('you'll need to pay for this product')
- Framing the meeting (talk to industry experts, ask for help)
- Customer segmentation (target the right user group)
- Prepping & reviewing (prep the questions that'll pass the mom test)
- Taking notes (take useful notes, share with the team)

Good conversations take time and practice. And this is a handbook you can keep coming back to during that process.
