---
layout: post
title: "Tired 2020"
excerpt: "Wired 2021."
date: 2020-12-30
---

[Coffeezilla](https://youtu.be/CWMAOzH20mY) has a line that goes -

> The only way to make money online is to stop watching how to make money online videos, cause if you're watching how to make money online videos you're not creating how to make money online videos, and if you're not creating how to make money online videos you don't really know how to make money online


This year produced 7 articles written sporadically through the year starting in April. The advice from many who write a newsletter or blog is to find an overarching theme and to stick to it. [Julie Zhou's](https://medium.com/the-year-of-the-looking-glass/how-to-be-strategic-f6630a44f86b) on product and management, [Hothouse Solutions'](https://hothouse.substack.com/p/the-future-of-food-is-in-your-own) on climate action are good examples. 

Writing, I've learnt, requires a certain discipline. When I started, I would attempt to write an article in no more than 30 minutes, in a single sitting. Not a good strategy, especially for the long form variety. Writing requires crafting and shaping where you read and re-read to light up shadowy corners or to cut off fluff. The [Notorious R.B.G](https://nysba.org/the-notorious-r-b-g-lessons-on-le-gal-writing-from-the-legendary-ruth-bader-ginsburg/) believed "the more effective a lawyer can be in speech and writing, the better professional he or she will be." This is true in more places than judicial writing - and especially for Product Managers. 

**Books**. The two standouts - **The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People** and **The Mom test**. 

The posit from 7 Habits is this - leadership begins with you, privately. Habits are a foundation and everyone's day to day is dictated by some form of good or bad habits. Procrastination, for example, is a habit. Not punctual? that's a habit. Too much screen time? that's also a habit. It takes honest effort to analyze these habits and why you have them in the first place. The book is decades old, but it is a gold mine of good advice. 

> 'Sow a thought, reap an action; sow an action, reap a habit; sow a habit, reap a character; sow a character, reap a destiny'. 

The Mom Test flipped my view on what to expect when talking to customers. Phrases such as 'customer empathy', 'talk to your customers', 'understand your customers' is common. But how do you do this effectively? That's where this book comes in. The Mom Test reveals that this knowledge is insufficient. Who knew that if you ask a customer 'Hey, this is a great idea isn't it?' and they reply 'yes!', they're actually lying?


## Articles 

**Ball don't lie** by Jay Caspian Kang, written in the aftermath of George Floyd's death. It talks about Black lives. It is easy to attach yourself with a movement but not do any real work behind it. You can see similar things happen with climate change. Real change requires real hard work.

Tech

News

## On Bahrain

We've been to the same malls a 100 times. Being a very small island country there is a sense of community. Of historic significance this year was the peace agreement signed with Israel. Bahrain's response to the Coronavirus has been effective. Masks and social distancing were enforced quite early. Bahrain's vaccination effort is second only to Israel.

Fish man

I spent way too much time fiddling with the site's design and layout. It took quite some restraint to call it 'good enough'.

No one needs to be told how Coronavirus felt like.

Remember, the road ahead is challenging.

Happy New Year


